INSTRUCTIONS :

Step 1: Download the application we have provided.
Step 2: Extract the downloaded application to the required location.
Step 3: Open the downloaded Employee Attendance System application.
Step 4: Open the EmployeeAttendanceSystem.exe
Step 5: Now you can use the application.

PROCEDURE :

Step 1: In the application click on Create Account at the bottom at Login Screen
        Now you will enter Sign up screen.
Step 2: After entering UserID , Password, Confirm Pass click on Sign up button then 
	  We will return to the Login page again.
Step 3: Now enter the EmployeeId and Password and click on login button.
	  We will enter to the Home Page where we will see mainly four buttons as
	  Take Attendance, Report, Add Employee and Delete Employee.
Step 4: The steps to add the Employee are as follows
	  ADD EMPLOYEE
	  Step 4.1: Click on Add Employee, new page will be opened. 
        Step 4.2: Click on Browse, file manager will be opened.
	  Step 4.3: Select .jpg file with file name as their employeeID which should contain their photo, then click on Add.
	  Step 4.4: If the employee photo is not present in our existing data will get a message as "Employee added Successfully".
	  Step 4.5: After adding all employees in the same manner click on back, will return to the home page. 
Step 5: The steps to take the Employee attendance are as follows
	  TAKE ATTENDANCE
	  Step 5.1: Click on TAKE ATTENDANCE, new page will be opened 
	  Step 5.2: Click on Start, now attendance taking process has been started.
        (Intially the camera is closed)
	  Step 5.3: To open camera, Click on Open Camera
	  Step 5.4: The employees has to be infront of the camera until their eye blinks atleast once.
	          	A message will be printed if their attendance has been taken.
	  Step 5.5: After taking attendance of every employee click on stop button, will return to the home page.
Step 6: The steps to show report are as follows 
        REPORT 
	  Step 6.1: Click on REPORT, new page will be opened
	  Step 6.2: Select Start date and End date, then click on show, the attendance report  will be opened between the given dates  
	  Step 6.3: To download that report, click on download button and select the location.
    			The report will be downloaded at the selected location.
 	  Step 6.4: After that click on back button we will return to home page.
Step 7: The Steps to Delete Employeee are as follows 
  	  Step 7.1: Click on DELETE EMPLOYEE, new page will be opened 
	  Step 7.2: Enter Employee ID and the Delete Employee.
			If Employee ID is present in our data then the employee will deleted and message will be printed.
	  Step 7.3: After deleting employee click on back button we will return to the home page.
Step 8: To log out click on the Log Out button.
Step 9: To close the application click on close button at the right top corner.
 	  Then the application will be closed succesfully.

Note : 1. The attendance can be taken only once for a day if we need any changes we need to edit them manually.
	 2. The camera which is using should be of high resolution.
	 3. The Photoes of employees while adding should be Clear.
	 4. While Taking attendance the area should not be dark(Use well lighted area for better experience).
   
 
